---
layout: post
title:  "Types of Writers"
author: Nazurudeen J
categories: [ Basics of writing ]
permalink: /:categories/:title/
image: assets/images/2.jpg
---


## Generalists
So these writers are generalists are jacks of all trades basically.
Okay so they can be great choices for high volume and short awareness level content. And this type of writing does not require a lot of expertise unlike a subject matter experts.

## Subject Matter Experts
They need to have in-depth knowledge for a particular domain or you know if you have to write textbooks say for example on physics known.

SEO generalist
SEO generalist is basically anyone who has a little knowledge about you.
In fact a lot of knowledge about is you you know writers these days how it works like good practice
create and they submit it.
But before it is being published online and it goes like what happens there is a theme of SEO analysys.
So they look into it and they see if everything matches to the SEO standards.
Whether it has content that will have good organic reach and they are going to make it SEO ready before having the blog being published online.
So yeah these are the ones they know how to integrate the target keywords, the phrases into your
digital content.
This is mainly to maximize your organic search.
These are the people whom you need to rely on in order to better rank your content organically.
And in order to build more traffic.
So if the subject matter experts have written each and every detail and everything  that people are wanting to read.
But if the SEO copywriter did not make your blog content SEO ready , even if the blog content is highly informative written by a subject matter expert, even then it is not going to be reaching out to the right audience or gain traffic.
so SEO generalists are a very important layer in the creative in the content writing industry.
That is why even in the job descriptions that you will see basics of a SEO understanding is always preferred.

UX/UI Writers
So they are involved with writing the core pages for the websites like the links, the buttons, and make sure that the website or the app is convenient to use according to the hierarchy of information .
So if you see an app and if you don't find it user friendly, it does not matter how good the app is, you do not want to stay any long on the app.
Right?
So, UX designer is the one who would be designing the app.
For example, if you are playing a game. So you want to exit the game now because maybe for whatever reason. So when you exit the game what is going to happen when you exit the game. You are going to be you know do buttons are going to pop up once this continue and the other one is exit.
So what happens to come to you seems to be highlighted and the exit is generally great. This gives you an impression that you can not press the exit until you press the button. When you press to come to your again you are staying longer on their application. These are the tricks that are designed by the UX designer wanting people to stay long on the application, website etc.
So they are the ones who would also be looking into the you know the arrangement of the information
everything has to be in tap the navigation pages should be very easy.
It should not be a hindrance not no page should be a hindrance to another beat.
A of that.
Lead Generation writer        
These are the people who are into bulk e-mails. They need to have strong knowledge and persuasive writing in order to make the content effective.
They need to incorporate a lot of selling strategy since content need to have a lot of the following:
* calls to action
sales letter
landing pages.
These are some of the examples.
Now if you are having a graphic design course, and there is a lead generation writer who can sent out emails to ten thousand emails saying that you have come up with a self-paced course for graphic design. Our of the 10,000 emaills sent as a bulk e-mail, maybe five thousand Michelle interest right out of 5000 maybe just five hundred may actually turn out.
So this is how it works.
You're writing in bulk in order to expect a call to action from the audience.
So it's like that kind of a thing you know they may or they may not show interest but you need to make
it more interactive.
You need to make it engaging.
You should not look like spam.
It should look like you know what's in it for me.
That end of a theme.
The W I AFN has to be followed in especially in the lead generation.
Like if at all.
I sign up for your cause.
What's in it for me.
If a dollar happened to buy your product what's the value for me.
So all this has to be focused in the meat in your sales pitch which would be written and generated by
the lead generation greatest lead generation writers.
They are the ones who would focus on getting the deeds for the business.
So what's it mean if you say yes INTERESTED.
GIVE ME MORE INFORMATION disconcerted as a lead.
Right.
Then you have your skills confusion theme which is that's a second report.
So they focus on contacting the leads and trying to kind of work them in those sales.
Next we have the R S and E S and these are your subject matter expert.
So who are these people.
So they are the ones who have deep understanding in this specific area within a specific industry.
And these would be the people who would be writing you know textbooks e-books white papers and you know
they are the ones who would be giving like a lot of suggestions and research papers and do which is
relevant to their industry and their domain.
Then next you have your influences influenced us.
So who are they.
These these are these influences they would add credibility to your content to the niche market and
their audience.
It's because of their influence that they are trying and pushing your product because of the influence
that they have on their audience or on that far less people would want to.
Likely you'll see a product your syllabuses or whatsoever.
So if at all you want to open celebrities Instagram influencers these days Influence marketing is also
like a major thing.
So on Instagram so if I have you know there is no age or goes the age yet that's a lot of make up reviews
and she has like 20000 plus followers.
Right.
So maybe if I'm a newbie into the industry with my line of makeup products I would not afford celebrities.
Right.
So they're pretty expensive to get the men to endorse my product.
So what I believe said look at these small time influencers like 20000 thousand people who have followers
and stuff like that.
I would approach them and I would like you know contact them and see how it works and what's their charges
and stuff that and ask them to kind of give a review on my product already you know to kind of influence
their audience that my product or you know just basically to advertise for my product using that influence.

.
